Unknown Speaker  00:21
Okay, folks, we are looking at price sector model number nine. It's

Unknown Speaker  00:25
going to be a one shot, one kill trading model, just one approach to how you guys can use this information that was taught mentorship. Obviously, there's many, many different ways we can formulate an approach to trading the weekly range, but we're stalking a 50 to 75 PIP per week haul on a consistent basis. Now,

Unknown Speaker  00:50
before we get into it, just remember that it's not my goal to teach you to expect it to happen every single week, especially as a new developing trader. Now, what you're thinking? Wait a minute. Now, I've already went through your mentorship. Michael, I'm not a new trader anymore. Well, I grant, yeah, that's it's probably true, in a sense, but you're still new with the content, so just be realistic with your expectations. Try not to put too much pressure on yourself, and just understand that you're going to have losses. Okay, everything that I teach here, until you grow into a consistent model where you realize how little you actually have to do. There's some growing pain you're going to go through. Just try not to build them up so much that they become mountainous barriers to your underlying development.

Unknown Speaker  01:40
Okay, so we are keeping with the theme here, because price is fractal.

Unknown Speaker  01:45
The stage is going to be a weekly range expansion, like everything else in the mentorship. It's how we basically build our directional bias. We're looking at institutional order flow on a weekly chart. We're trying to ascertain the weekly direction from the weekly chart in order. Are we going to expand the upside or downside relative to the weekly institutional order of flow? Obviously, monthly charts can help you here. So again, I'm going to preface this by saying that the breakdown in top down analysis approach that I do in month number 12, the August content from the mentorship of 2017

Unknown Speaker  02:23
that is how I do all of my analysis from the top down. And I look for those things much like I'm going to explain here. That leads to the results you guys see that I share on my Twitter feed. So all those trades that I share, I get inundated with you, can you review that trade? Can you do this? Can you do that? I'm not going to do it on Twitter, obviously, because you know, eventually, if I do it, enough people will start to catch on to what I'm doing, and you paid for it. So it's important for you to use the information that you learned from this mentorship to break down what you see in the trades yourself. Now, obviously I fancy dance a little bit sometimes with my entries and exits, because I don't want anyone trying to mimic or reverse engineer the things that I teach in the mentorship. There's a joker on YouTube that insists he's figured it out with a rectangle moving it around. It couldn't be further from the truth, and you all knew the difference between what we're learning here and what's being shown by the people that supposedly figured out. What you are learning

Unknown Speaker  03:29
nowhere near so the weekly range expansion that is our go to all the time. That's our one trick pony for directional bias. Okay, so if you do your work and study on your weekly chart. Which direction is it reaching for on your weekly chart? That's the direction you trade for. For daily bias. Will every single day, Monday through Friday, trade in that direction? No, and that's not necessary. You don't need it to do that. Okay? There's going to be times, as you'll see in this teaching here, where even on a weekly basis, you may get it wrong, and the week may do something that you weren't expecting, and that's typical. That's normal. That's

Unknown Speaker  04:09
outside of the expectations of a newbie, because when they read a book or go through a course or join a service like we have here, naturally, they assume that they're going to have 100% accuracy, and that's not realistic. So I'm going to show you how sticking to the model itself, eventually you're going to encounter adverse results, but you stick with it, and you'll get right back in line with what the institutional workflow and smart money is doing with price action. So the setup, again, we're focusing on day of the week. Okay? So Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, we're expecting a high or low to form Now, conversely, what we said about the model number eight, okay, where we didn't require or even concern ourselves with hunting the weekly high or low.

Unknown Speaker  05:00
So this model we are so we're going to touch on some things that I do that allow me to consistently find what the weekly range is going to do and where my sweet spot entries are going to be. So the pattern, again, we're working with inefficiencies. It's liquidity voids and fair value gaps to liquidity runs. Now I'm going to give you some insights about that that I haven't shed on any other lesson in mentorship. So let's get into it.

Unknown Speaker  05:31
Nothing's changed in terms of our underlying framework, because it's based on a higher Time Frame, top down analysis approach. We're using the weekly range expansion, and we're looking for, again, that range between the next 50 to 100 pips. So the same model we used for model number eight for our

Unknown Speaker  05:53
I guess, higher Time Frame premise, or directional premise, if you want to call it that, it's the same thing. We haven't changed it. And if you've gone through the mentorship and you've paid attention, this is what I actually teach. This is how we look for institutional order flow, and we stick with this narrative. We do not care what anyone else is saying on Twitter or YouTube or CNBC. We don't care. Okay, we're focusing on what price action is telling us, and we're going to stick with that narrative until we are proven beyond a shadow of doubt that it's no longer valid. When is that you'll know Okay, when your trades aren't working out and it's screaming the other direction, okay, you cut your losses short and go in and see if the analysis will support that opposite direction. And that's trading. That's what goes on, and that's what professionals do. But when we work off the higher Time Frame, we're doing that to build a directional bias that way institutional order flow on the daily four hour and one in our charts will be in sync with us, then our trades will more more than likely pan out now, again, that's not an absolution. It's not. It's going to be the result that you expected. There's going to be adversities. Obviously, we're in the lower time frame models as far as entry and look looking for small moves, still outside of swing trading and position trading. So there's more potential for setups, which also means there's more potential for taking an entry that's wrong. Okay, so be mindful of that, and that's why we want to limit our focus on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. For this particular model,

Unknown Speaker  07:36
the inefficiency and liquidity runs. If you have studied dementorship and gone through it a couple different times. Now it's a lot of content, yes, but you should be going through it every six months. Just go through the lessons, cycle through them over and over and over again. Make it so you know what I'm going to say before I say it. You want it to be that redundant, because if you know what I'm going to say, that means you know that lesson. You know it. You know by heart,

Unknown Speaker  08:09
the live sessions, they have lessons inside them, tucked in different places, but the lessons themselves each month, if you go through them, they're going to give you the underlying language that we use to build these models. And again, these are not complete. The intent was to introduce 12 unique models, and we build them up as we go. So 2019

Unknown Speaker  08:33
we'll go right back through these again each month. We'll focus on one, and we'll add more insights and build it up. And in 2020 we'll do the same thing. We'll keep building it up, and you'll see how each one of these 12 models can over time as an example. Not that you should grab one of these and run with it. Say, this is how I'm going to do it. You can, but I'm not encouraging you to do that. Okay? I want you to study them broadly. In other words, all of them, and whichever one you feel closely linked to, or we gravitate towards, that's probably the model that's going to be closest to what you're going to end up becoming as a trader. Can it change later on? Yes, so be flexible in the beginning. So how much time is going to require for that determine if you're going to be a short term trader or a swing trader or position trader, or even a scalper, some of you guys, one of the position traders, and now suddenly you're like me. I can get in here a couple different times a week, scalping up, and I'm done. And that's awesome. You know, it's that was the intent of the mentorship for you to discover what makes you tick as a trader, and then focusing on those tools, they'll allow you to do very well doing that. But

Unknown Speaker  09:42
going through the mentorship, I taught two things as it relates to liquidity, one being external range liquidity, that being like run on outside double top highs and double bottom lows and internal range liquidity, which is fair value gap and.

Unknown Speaker  10:00
Liquidity voids and order blocks

Unknown Speaker  10:04
if you haven't picked up one yet. What I have not disclosed until this lesson here is you want to look for models in your trading, and don't talk about this. Okay, I know there's a few of you in here, and I'm going to catch you eventually,

Unknown Speaker  10:21
but you're sharing my content. There's things that I purposely kept back until we got into the charter membership level, because they're too too good. They're too good, and no one talks about it because no one knows about it. No one thinks about it because they've never been exposed to the things I've been exposed to. So when we look at price action and we classify runs on liquidity or runs into liquidity, they're based on two categories, two classes, again, one being external range liquidity and the other internal range liquidity. Most of the time you're going to find that internal range liquidity, entries will run to external range liquidity. That means you're going to see order blocks, fair value gaps or voids be your entry, and it'll expand outside of the present short term dealing range to external range liquidity, and that is your low resistance liquidity run. Conversely, if you are using turtle soup entry style trading, in other words, fading double top highs that will get ran out in a bearish condition, you can use as your entry, and then you're going to target internal range liquidity for your exits. So we're coupling everything we taught in

Unknown Speaker  11:41
month number five for the PD rate matrix and all of the PDAs as it relates to internal range and external range liquidity. How they couple together? I just gave you the decoder key, if you will. Okay, all of my trades, all of them are framed on one of those two conditions. If I'm entering on an external range liquidity, I'm aiming for internal range liquidity, and I'll explain what that is, if it's not being made very clear to you yet. But if you study the mentorship, you know exactly what I mean. And you're probably saying, oh, there it is. Well, that's not all. We got a lot more stuff to teach eventually, but this right here is one of those, man, I now know what I'm looking for moments that's that's what you should be having right now. Because if we know that a double top, which was what we call as Candy Land, when they run those stops,

Unknown Speaker  12:38
it's expected to be a sweep most times. So it's going to return back inside of the previous range. What's it going to do once it gets inside of that range? It's going to seek internal range liquidity. It's going to go for fair value gaps. It's going to go back for equilibrium, or it's going to go to

Unknown Speaker  12:56
a bolt short block, and it's going to seek to recapitalize at those levels. Now I don't know if it's going to run the other side of the range and break out the other side. I don't care. That's why I couple it with external range entries and internal range exits, or internal range entries and external range exits. That's how I look at the marketplace. That's what makes me consistent, because I'm looking at the orders now. I don't have something on my screens, okay? I don't have a membership to anything that tells me this is where the orders are. So if we look for internal range entries, it's very gaps, liquidity voids being filled in, or order blocks. We're looking for a range to be broken,

Unknown Speaker  13:47
but I don't care if it continues to keep going once it trades outside of the range, that's where I'm looking to exit my positions or scale out. That's going to be a long term position, which I don't long term trade anymore. So if we have these elements understood,

Unknown Speaker  14:06
we now have a complete model at our fingertips anytime we want. We can look at any chart, any time frame, and quickly ascertain what is the current trading range, what's the higher time frames, most likely, probable direction, determine where those inefficiencies are

Unknown Speaker  14:24
and imbalances, and

Unknown Speaker  14:27
the difference between that is an imbalance. If we have a market that rallies up higher, it's

Unknown Speaker  14:34
going to create many times a fair value gap or liquidity void where there's one or couple big up candles, and that's a buy side and balance sell side inefficiency, okay, knowing that it's the same thing, you're saying the same thing when I say those things, because I noticed when I go through my notes, or if I look at something, when someone asks me a question, they'll say, you know, what's the difference between you?

Unknown Speaker  15:00
You say it's running for buy side liquidity, or if it says a buy side imbalance, what am I saying there? It's the same thing interchangeably. It depends upon how I'm looking at it, so

Unknown Speaker  15:11
it means the same thing. And it may be a little bit confusing for you, but just know that the characteristic of that price action, when price runs up hard from, say, a significant intermediate term low, and it rallies quickly. It will leave porous price action in the form of inefficiencies. There's not been a lot of offers in there to pair up cells. It just keeps bidding higher, higher, higher, higher, higher in those gaps, which you don't really see,

Unknown Speaker  15:43
they exist. So it's a buy side imbalance by nature, because it's too much of buying,

Unknown Speaker  15:52
and if they will want to rebalance that with sell side delivery. So it's inefficient in the sense that it's without enough or or a efficient means of sell side liquidity in that big run up. So a sell side imbalance is the opposite. The market runs down quickly, and there is a buy side in efficiency. So there hasn't been enough bids in there, while the market just keeps dropping, dropping, dropping, dropping, dropping. It's too many offers, so if they want to go back up and rebalance that.

Unknown Speaker  16:28
So it's important that you understand that there is an element that may have caused some confusion throughout the mentorship. It's just when I look at it,

Unknown Speaker  16:39
I look at it from two perspectives, and depends upon what I was saying at the time when I was saying it throughout the mentorship. Because if I'm looking at something for a purpose of taking profits, and I'm using a fair value gap or liquidity void,

Unknown Speaker  16:52
I'll be looking at it in characterizing that move into that level based on the purpose of

Unknown Speaker  16:59
it, rebalancing, okay, and removing the inefficiency, but it's still the same thing. A buy side imbalance is a sell side inefficiency. A sell side imbalance is a buy side inefficiency. It's the same thing. There's two halves of that story, okay? Or you want to say like this, there's two sides of that coin. It's the same coin, okay? We're talking about the same thing, but there's two elements that make up price movement, the bid and the offer. So from a liquidity standpoint, we have to understand what is the purpose of price going to that level? Again? Is it going down there to rebalance, to pick up more orders and that fits the narrative, or is it going down there to offer means of offset distribution, to allow smart money to get out of the move, and then we have to wait to see if it's going to consolidate or continue to break through. Those are the things that we have to balance out, and the narrative is determined by more study.

Unknown Speaker  18:01
So let's go into,

Unknown Speaker  18:04
again, the charts here. These are the same charts exactly as model number eight, but I'm showing you, from a fractal standpoint, how we all look at the same chart. Anyway, every single one of us is looking at the British pound, the euro, Swissy, the yen. So I hate

Unknown Speaker  18:23
it. Canadian dollar, Looney, whatever you want to call it. We are all looking at the same thing every single day, every single week, but because of the type of trader you're trying to be or aspiring to be, and you may not know what that is yet, still, it's normal for you to still be unsure, because it's a lot of content, and you have a long career ahead of you, and you don't want to rush this part of it, but when we look at price action, all of us are going to see something different. Even though we're seeing the open Highland post the same, we will all internally digest this uniquely different. And it's a startling revelation. When you take a step back and look at it like that and say, Okay, wow, it really is true, because there's 1000s of people that are learning from me, and all of you can sit down to chart and come up with a different way of trading it, and it still would be profitable, and it would completely go against, many times, some of the things that other traders in this group would be doing, and they still would be profitable. So it's,

Unknown Speaker  19:28
it's a very fascinating subject. That's why I love price action, because it allows us to see things in a way where we can manifest what we hope to have and manifest our dreams right through our visual interpretation of price action, because then what we see in that we can use that to manage money,

Unknown Speaker  19:50
that money hopefully yields a return, and that yielded return can be compounded every time, and that is the vehicle or the catalyst that takes us out of.

Unknown Speaker  20:00
A rat race and puts us into a lifestyle that we want to have.

Unknown Speaker  20:03
All of us are going to do it differently. And I have changed hats throughout my 26 years of the markets, and I've not consistently stayed one thing. I've always evolved into something different, new, and I have found that I am a weekly range or day trader, I can scalp like nobody's business, and that's been evident shown on Twitter this year. But I don't like being in the charts that much. Only do it the show off. Some of you like that. This model, one shot, one kill, is designed to capitalize on the weekly range. We're not trying to get in there. And nickel diamond market. Really want to try to get as close as we can to the weekly high. Sell short there, and cover close as we can in the lower 1/3 of the weekly range, or expected weekly range, and be content with that. Okay, our objective is looking for 50 to 75 pips. I'm going to go through the exercise that I go through every single week. This is exactly what I do. I don't do anything other than this, and this is basically the model I do. So when I give you my weekly commentary,

Unknown Speaker  21:11
I'm doing this very thing. Okay? So

Unknown Speaker  21:15
you can use it as a drill each week. Try to do your analysis before when we go back into doing our weekly analysis after the holidays.

Unknown Speaker  21:24
When we do our Monday uploads, try to have your analysis done over the weekend, so that way you can anticipate rather what I'm going to say. Now you may not say verbatim what I'm going to actually say. Obviously it's not realistic, but the general theme of what I'm expecting, you're going to hopefully grow into knowing what I'm going to say. This mentorship is not meant for you to hold my hand and me hold your hand forever in perpetuity. It's not what we're doing. Okay? I don't want a codependency. I want you to say I'm so thankful. As part of this I am ready and spread your wings and fly. It doesn't mean not come in here and hang out with the memberships for but I don't want you leaning on every word okay and waiting on bated breath. What am I going to say about a market you shouldn't be thinking that. None of you should be thinking that your charter members now you need to be more responsible and independent in your thinking and be okay with taking a loss. That's where, that's where your lessons are going to come from. Your greatest learning is going to come from those times where you thought you had it right, but it didn't happen. And I didn't get here without having a lot of losing trades, lots of them, and every one of them, those little cuts, they heal and the tissue that is replacing the normal flesh. It's thicker, it's scar tissue, it's, it's, it's a little bit different. It's harder, and you become more callous to all these types of things over time, and you become seasoned by it. That's what professionals are. They're not influenced by the minor or short term fluctuations in their their outlook on the marketplace, because they know, consistently, over time, they're going to be more right than they're wrong, and that's the mindset I'm trying to promote here. So if we're looking at the same model here, same price action fractal, we have Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, and the buy stops that was shown on December 3, that was the objective to be ran

Unknown Speaker  23:21
everything that was shown in model number eight is insightful, and it complements this model. And I did this presentation with this in mind, because I went from the

Unknown Speaker  23:34
short term trying to get 25 pips once a week. Okay, now to doing we're looking at the one shot one kill, where we're trying to get the weekly high and weekly low,

Unknown Speaker  23:46
if we don't get it, what is your contingency plan?

Unknown Speaker  23:52
Use what I taught you in model number eight, or what I end up teaching you in the scalping model. And I don't know off time I had what, no matter it's going to be, but it's in a later lesson than this. It's one of the 12 towards the end. So we have

Unknown Speaker  24:12
an approach to capturing what we're hopefully going to see as consistency over time, and there's going to be a model for you to follow, because everyone's asking, well, when do I do this? And if this doesn't happen, what do I do? You drop down in the models. That's why it's important for even a position trader, okay, if you want to be a position trader and you you miss your entry, okay, you had a limit order and it gets short and it didn't trade to it, you're going to sit there and wait for the people on trading and regret all that. Are you going to use other models to get you in sync with the marketplace and still hold for that longer term position? That's the benefit of learning all these some of you are trying to wash your hands of the scalping model or the day trading model because it doesn't fit your.

Unknown Speaker  25:00
Your unique personality, and I get that, but you need to understand it, because that's how a professional will encounter and engage the marketplace if their longer term models don't provide them the entry points. What is, what's left? They just don't trade. They just miss the opportunities all the time. No, if you know a long term move is going to happen. And if you look at what we've been doing here, we're framing all of our trades in the direction of the weekly expansion. So we have a unique higher Time Frame perspective on every trade we are setting up. So we have that element there in all these models.

Unknown Speaker  25:37
If we are going to miss a swing trade or position trade, or even a one shot one kill before we get into the nuts and bolts of this teaching, just know that you can use what was taught in model number eight to get something off of the week. That way you don't have, you know, a complete missed opportunity, because if you missed the weekly high, well, from one shot one kill standpoint, you missed the ideal entry. But it doesn't mean you've missed profitability or potential profitability for the week. Who cares if you only get 25 pips? It's better than missing out. Or if you take a loss, you get stopped out, you can use model number eight to help mitigate that loss that you use trying to trade a one shot, one kill model.

Unknown Speaker  26:18
Think about that. You wasn't thinking about that, were you that's the purpose of having a multi approach, or a multi pronged approach, if you will. When I was back on America Online in the 90s, I taught, tried it okay, and it was like a three pronged approach, where I was always able to do something. And that mindset started in 1996 for me, and it allowed me to always have some means of capturing something before Friday. Now it sounds like over trading. It sounds like forcing an opportunity or forcing a trade. And to the uninitiated, that will be you know, probably very close to reasonable, but I'm not forcing anything. I'm adapting, and that's what we have to determine if we're going to be a short term trader like this using one shot one kill. We do not want to feel trapped in the sense that that's the only way we can trade. And because you didn't like day trading, or you didn't like scalping, therefore, you know, you just missed a vote, not just going to stay out the rest of the week. And if it's Wednesday, you missed it. Well, if you missed the trade on Thursday,

Unknown Speaker  27:35
what are you left with? You still have something on Friday.

Unknown Speaker  27:39
Don't let opportunities slip by. If you have drawdown, try to mitigate it. Don't force it. Try to mitigate it. You don't have to get all of it back. Just get some of it back if you can, if it's questionable, or if you just completely opposed to it, emotionally, psychologically, getting back in and hurt you, then stay out the rest of the week. That's how you determine that. But I taught enough in the mentorship how we mitigate losses, how we build small accounts up from nothing, keep doing the same thing and remember again. But in this lesson, the importance of understanding all the other models or approaches to trading using my concepts is that it allows you a multi dimensional approach to engaging the marketplace and not just simply relying only on your one tried and true favorite bread and butter model, because your bread and butter model is going to miss opportunities because you're going to get the entries wrong, or you're going to take a loss. So what's the protocol for that? You need to determine that, what is it going to be? Is it going to be? Is it going to be you're going to stay out the rest of the week and regret when I'm going to move that you could have done or mitigated the loss? Or are you going to say, Okay, well, I'm going to adapt and say, Okay, I can't do one shot one kill, because we've already missed the ideal entry points. So I'm going to drop down into a scalping model.

Unknown Speaker  28:57
Whoa. Now you're evolving. So you're not putting walls around yourself and limiting your engagement. You're allowing yourself to be flexible in working with what the market's giving you through time and price. So it's important you understand that also the benefits of me teaching these multi approaches is that when we want to move our stop, one of the lessons that you probably didn't pick up on

Unknown Speaker  29:23
when you see the lower time frame trade models go to levels where they would be targets. For instance, if a scalping model or day trading model trades to a objective. For instance, the cell stops shown here, that's the only time you would be moving your stop loss on a one shot, one kill.

Unknown Speaker  29:42
Oh, now we're now we're getting the gears turning, aren't we? See everyone's asking questions that I told you throughout the mentorship. Wait, all these things will be given to you, and they'll be they'll be understood, but you can't understand it, and you can't appreciate it until you learn all of these things. You got to go through all the models.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai