Unknown Speaker  00:20
Good evening.

Unknown Speaker  00:40
Folks, this is The economic calendar for next week.

Unknown Speaker  00:43
This recording is actually going to be our normal Monday video, but my wife just informed me that we have plans that I was unaware of. So it's life. So we're going to do the analysis now, and if there's anything that needs to be mentioned or attention drawn to on Monday, I'll draw it to your attention by way of Twitter. So the economic calendar for this coming week, we have on Monday, a lot of high impact news for GBP in the London session, GDP, manufacturing, production, and then on Tuesday, we have currently speaking at 8am for GBP, and we have a medium impact speaker in London for Tuesday's Eurodollar session.

Unknown Speaker  01:39
And then on

Unknown Speaker  01:42
Tuesday, late afternoon, my local time, 12:45pm

Unknown Speaker  01:47
we have Fed Chair pal speaking.

Unknown Speaker  01:51
And then Wednesday, we have high impact CPI for GBP in London, PPI as well. 8:30am news embargo lifts at New York open CPI. And course, CPI high impact for the dollar.

Unknown Speaker  02:08
On Thursday,

Unknown Speaker  02:09
we have another medium impact speaker for GDP during the London Open euro will see preliminary GDP numbers in the form of medium impact news driver at 2am and 5am the flash GDP for Euro 8:30am again. News embargo for New York session lifts for core retail sales, PPI retail sales. Numbers for the dollar index. So all majors will be affected by that on Thursday, then on Friday, we have medium impact and high impact news drivers, one for the London session related to GBP for retail sales, and then we have 10am consumer sentiment for the dollar closing out the week

Unknown Speaker  02:59
overall,

Unknown Speaker  03:01
I think that we should see a pretty eventful Monday. I think we'll have some volatility, which is typically uncharacteristic. I think we'll see some GBP movement on that day, and then we have Wednesday. CPI numbers may be impactful for GBP.

Unknown Speaker  03:29
The highlight for

Unknown Speaker  03:32
Euro dollar, I think, will be the Thursday session. So I think Thursday we'll see a nice form of volatility that day because of the GDP numbers and the flash

Unknown Speaker  03:48
release at 5am

Unknown Speaker  03:51
apart from that, I think we'll start to see a little bit better economic calendar. This is certainly something that's more favorable, something more that I'm used to operating in us. Okay, let's

Unknown Speaker  04:04
go over to the charts and start breaking it down.

Unknown Speaker  04:09
Okay, so we're looking at the dollar index. This is the daily chart, and I mentioned in commentary for this week that I wanted to see it trade through this high and we did see that we've had an attempt to trade down into it again, which is what I want to see as well. And we closed above the open on Friday. All the price action leading up to this high in here, this really shouldn't have a lot of resistance. It should just study move higher and make it run into the buy side liquidity pool,

Unknown Speaker  04:49
and again, that weekly inefficiency. Now I've mentioned

Unknown Speaker  04:51
it several times,

Unknown Speaker  04:54
so we're looking at this sell side imbalance, buy side inefficiency, liquidity pool. Cool. Okay, so we're going to be expecting much like I've been expecting for a couple months now to see this thing filled. But when we're looking at a weekly chart, it takes a long, long time, and it's why I don't have the patience to trade that time frame as you use it for a bias, if you will. So don't take that off here for a second so we can see clearly above these highs. This right here, okay, and what I'm looking for is basically the same thing that was outlined on the dollar cat.

Unknown Speaker  05:37
We had a equal high

Unknown Speaker  05:41
sell side imbalance, buy side inefficiency.

Unknown Speaker  05:45
This is what we're expecting to see, okay, which I can see that run through, just being applied to the weekly chart on the dollar. Okay, so it takes a long time for that to be panning out. So we drop back down into a daily,

Unknown Speaker  06:02
really nice movement here.

Unknown Speaker  06:05
I like the idea of staying above this candle body. So we can take this level here, which was a lower level breaker that we had outlined,

Unknown Speaker  06:18
looking to see that trade through. So

Unknown Speaker  06:22
what I'm to see price stay above that. Okay, and that price specifically is 9635 so as long as we're above that, we're bullish. I mentioned that I would see it as a run above the old high and then rejecting and going lower. I didn't think that's going to happen. I still don't think that's going to happen. I think that they're going to send this thing higher to clear up this area here. So 98 are are likely with $1 Moving on over to Euro, dollar. Okay, this pair has been stuck in this range here, but I think we're about to move into that inefficiency that we've talked about for a while now. So in this case, we have a buy side imbalance, sell side inefficiency, liquidity pool. I expect that to see a run to it. So about 110, 20,

Unknown Speaker  07:20
so let's calibrate our level.

Unknown Speaker  07:26
So 110, 20, bam, there you go.

Unknown Speaker  07:31
Set level will remain on our charts. So we're expecting to see essentially a 310

Unknown Speaker  07:39
PIP slide, on Euro dollar,

Unknown Speaker  07:44
keeping that

Unknown Speaker  07:47
on our chart, dropping back down into a daily all of this price action here gets demystified, if you will. And we have that weekly level on our chart, it provides a lot more context all these lows in here. This is uncharacteristic of price action doesn't like to keep these things intact, so we'll be looking to press through that next week. We may come back up into something like this horizontal lines, because I don't have the patience to be dealing with those line segments. We may trade through that and come back up, trade into that area. Here. Should see some mitigation and trade lower. I would rather actually not even come back to this. I'd like to see it just make a straight decline all the way into that 110 Now that's not to say that we're not going to see up close candles. I'm just saying that I'd prefer it to not come back and hit that that way. What it would do is, on a longer term basis, would keep the range between this low and this implied objective for downside of target, 110, 20 relative to the weekly chart, it would create a sell side imbalance, bicycle inefficiency. So if it trades down here without coming back up to this, that means, when we trade back up to it here, that's a better area to sell short on, a longer term swing trade position, trade idea, and then watch it start to hear words a little bit more again. You know, as a long term macro perspective, I still see Europe said this years and years ago on my YouTube channel, but it just takes a long time for these things to to develop, much like my call on 102104 on the dollar index. It took several years to get up there, so I believe that your dollar and dollar will go to parity eventually. What time frame? I don't know that, because it's such a long term thing. I don't know that. But I think that if we see a run below this low, it should. Delivered in a steady decline, and then once it hits this area. Now here we balance that weekly buy side imbalance, sell side and efficiency, it'll create an opportunity for it to run back up, which is all completely tradable, you know, being long, but waiting for a later time frame that goes short here, and then hold that for a little bit longer. Price move again using higher Time Frame weekly analysis. But it's the same thing you see me do on the intraday charts, just applied to a longer term, boring time frame weekly. So everything here indicates it's going lower and it's supportive of the higher dollar. We have a lot of liquidity resting below 113

Unknown Speaker  10:48
so it could see a pretty

Unknown Speaker  10:51
impressive run down into the one twelves, and then getting into one elevens, high one elevens, it might consolidate around in 111 is a little bit create small, little up closes and then again, targeting 110 110 20. If we go below 110 20, you know what to see. What happens then.

Unknown Speaker  11:12
But right now,

Unknown Speaker  11:13
we get to take one thing at a time, one level at a time. So that's the skinny on the Euro from a daily perspective, if

Unknown Speaker  11:21
we drop down into an hourly chart,

Unknown Speaker  11:30
okay, and we put our dividers on. You can see last week, I had this short up, and when they closed on Friday after Non Farm Payroll,

Unknown Speaker  11:40
the market eroded all the way down,

Unknown Speaker  11:44
and we ended up creating the low of the week on Friday. This right here is just complete, utter weakness. It just simply says no buying going on in Euro, dollar. No one wants to touch it. They want to hold it. So it's just in heavy mode of distribution. So I think that what we just outlined from the weekly perspective is certainly being followed, if you will, from the banks. So everything we see here will probably be the continuation, going lower again next week. I don't think we'll see this just slow, little drift lower. I I really don't like these types of movements. I like them sharp, punchy, creating imbalances. When it's like this, it forces you, really, to go down into lower time frames to get your imbalances, which is not a problem if you're comfortable with doing intraday, but as an educator, it's easier for me to show you when we work with like this. Okay, we have these imbalances like that, because it's easy for me to pull your eye to it, and you can see it when it looks like this on the daily. It provides a lot of confusion, because we have to incorporate lower time frames and right away, if you're completely against the idea of day trading or scalping or even short term trading, it just the students tend to plug their ears and they're watching TV or reading something and they're not really paying attention to what I'm teaching at the time. So it just makes it more difficult for me to try to hold your attention. So if we drop down to a 15 minute time frame, you'll see going into Sunday's trading, Monday's trading here, rather sloppy. We mentioned this potential drop down. We got that run during a quiet period of the time, then you sell it off again here on Tuesday. Tuesday had a run up in New York, open market retraction, clearing out anyone that was short, upsetting that, neutralizing liquidity on short positions, and the market has a nice drop lower. The following day. You have just no real attempt to rally all and we get into the london session, small, little run on stops, nice imbalance here. This is sell side imbalance, buy side inefficiency. So you can start seeing the effects of the up close candle, which is a bare shoulder block liquidity pool, again, imbalance all sell side. So the market will want to go up into that to rebalance it. It does it perfectly. And then we have distribution equal lows. This right here is your low resistance, liquidity run setup, very, very easy type scenario. And then on this day here market protraction, due to swing London back into consolidation, sells all. Up, and then we have a nice little pop on the New York open, trading back up into liquidity pool, moving into a consolidation dead period of the day, runs down below the low, pops back up, clears some stops equal highs, runs those intraday, then heavy distribution to take out the low one more time here, and then we consolidate going into the close. So I think that we'll still see this trade lower. I believe that if we focus on shorting, rallies above equal highs or shorting inside of

Unknown Speaker  15:47
South Side

Unknown Speaker  15:51
imbalance. Okay, in other words, if we see a drop down, aggressive drops like this or like this, not like this, because you can see that big wick up here that was rebalanced. So it's not necessary for it to come back up into that. This one would have been a nice ideal scenario to see if it would have traded a little bit higher up clear these equal highs close that end, that was that would be a classic ICT London Open sell short. I bet just didn't have the didn't have another energy up there. But if we see periods where we have the one or two single down closed candles, that's a sell side imbalance. It's too much selling, not enough buying in that same period, or between that range of price and the market will want to go back up into that. So if we train our eye to look for those in the eurodog in the coming weeks, that's really what you should be focusing on, on practicing that as well all time frames, not just the 15 minute time frame. You can look for it on a 30 minute chart. You can look for it on a four hour chart, five minute chart, and even on a one minute chart, just train your eye to look for them, and then watch how it goes up and fills those and then the reaction is after that. We expect to see it continue go lower. Obviously, the best time is during the kill zones, London Open, New York open, and not so much in Asia, because Asia's accumulation, in essence, over here like this and like this. So we want to see the energetic periods of the day. New York open, and specifically limit open.

Unknown Speaker  17:24
Moving on over to cable, this thing,

Unknown Speaker  17:30
we even pull up a weekly chart. I'm just really, I have no idea. I want to, I want to believe that they're just gonna do something that's completely unexpected, and it will be like a black swan.

Unknown Speaker  17:50
And it's really, really it to me, it's

Unknown Speaker  17:57
something I want to be a part of, to some degree, because I think there's going to be a big movement in it, and it's going to probably be against what every other currency is doing. Because if we can have a crazy run, the dollars doesn't have to be doing anything contrary to it, because it's a Brexit type thing. Okay? The whole, I guess, the impact of whether Brexit, an event that's going to take place or not, the longer it stays in discussion like this, the harder cable will be for a long term clear forecast. So I just wish they would just get on with it. You just get it over with. Because I love trading cable. I want to be in cable, but if we don't see a lot more definition in terms of the price action, I will have to ring in an extra currency pair, and it may be the Australian dollar or the dollar CAD it will not I'm not taking up a vote for which one I want to put in or which one you all collectively want me to put in there. I'm telling you which one I'm going to put in there. It's either going to be dog CAD or it's going to be Aussie dollar. And if cable gets act together, then I'll just remove it again, because I want to keep the focus on two pairs. But if I can't do what I want to do on cable, I want to at least give you, you know, additional insights in another pair that's outside of my pet pairs. Okay, so just wanted to toss that in there. When, when would I decide that I don't know. I'm just telling you that's on the back burner. I'm thinking about it. Been contemplating, if we stay in this mess on cable, I may just ring in another current. Two pair. All right, so with cable we came down here, cleaned up this run,

Unknown Speaker  20:10
zoom a little bit.

Unknown Speaker  20:13
Okay, this run from the swing low, right in here. Trade it into the order block there. And this wick and this big drop down in here. To me, I don't have anything inside this entire range right here, from this high and this low. I have nothing in here that allows me a real clear, definitive this is where things want to go. We do have equal lows here, yes, but then we have all this as well, and it's inside of this as well, so I don't know, and I want you to at least appreciate the fact that there's going to be times when you're not going to have an idea what to do. And there's two there's two camps when it comes to things like that. Well, you should know better. I'm paying you. You should know better, okay, or Okay, that's acceptable and that's reasonable, because there's going to be times when you have to be in park. I tweeted this and said that there's times, even the fastest of sports cars and I own some, they all have Park. Okay, they all have a park in their transmissions. So they don't always go, go, go, go. So if I identify when I'm unsure about something, it's not meant for you to feel well this, this is unacceptable, or this is you're you claim this, you should know better. No, there's gonna be times when you just can't get anything in terms of probabilities being high. Because of that, I can't sit down and tell you with a great deal of accuracy or confidence, because I'm not confident. That's why I'm staying away from it. Yeah, I see it intraday for scalps only, but from a higher time. From time frame perspective, I just don't see anything in here, like I don't feel confident pointing either direction. I want to believe it's going to be slammed higher and simply because it just feels like that's what's going to happen. And that's just a gut feeling. It just feels like something explosive is going to happen in this pair. But I for, for the life, man, I just can't determine what would frame it. And since I can't do that, I gotta, I gotta treat it like a rattlesnake. Okay, it's, it's gonna bite me. I already know it's going to if I try to engage with it, so I'm just leaving it alone. It may change. It may not change. It may stay like this for a couple months. Like I said, I have a contingency plan. We'll bring in another pair. But meanwhile, we do have something that's pretty loaded for Euro dollar, and if we have sympathy in cable, it may want to just drop lower in response to that. And then all of this right here, Brexit pump may be just completely eroded, and they attack the equal Well, not that they're that close, but they're close enough in terms of this, you know, just time frame, so they could make a run on that from a long term perspective. In other words, all this run was just to get above this high, take out large fund stops and then trade lower. That could be what may happen, and maybe I'll participate in that movement. And maybe I don't. I don't know right now, I have to be honest with you, and just tell you this. There's nothing for me to outline for you for cable. With that said, we can look at things on a hindsight basis and look at what took place over the week, and we had nice little run in here taking stops on the New York session and erosion took place this here, this day right in here is, to me, a beautiful piece of price action right in here. In fact, let's go here and take a closer look at it. Because want

Unknown Speaker  24:44
to talk a little bit about market structure.

Unknown Speaker  24:49
So inside this day here, we'll we'll break it down in a moment. We have a low here. It had a lot of decline. Uh, then it came back up. Rebalance that. Okay, this is the classic area where we want to be engaging or trading up into, depending upon your model, if the market were to take out a high energy low in other words, this is like a lot of aggression to get down to there and then turned trade all the way back up if we take that out. Okay, this is going to be a natural but this in your notes, it's a natural break in market structure. Now, what does that mean? Natural breaking? What has it distinguished from a classic shift in market structure? A classic shift in market structure would be something like this, where we've traded up up, and then the last high, the low in between, there is going to be broken, right there, okay, so any little short term rally should be distributed, distributed, okay, When we see high energy levels,

Unknown Speaker  25:57
okay, where

Unknown Speaker  26:02
the market quickly runs to it, okay? There has to be speed. Has to be a lot of energy behind it, okay, in the 90s, we call them caffeine bars, okay, and it's because a lot of energy behind it. I didn't come up with a term. It's just something I I like the idea of calling it that. It made sense when we were talking about the Merck chat rooms. So this is a big caffeinated candle or bar on the downside, and then Bryce runs through. So there, it took a lot of energy get down there, and took very little time to get there. So if that load gets broken in the future, this is what's going to be a natural break in market structure. You would be commonly referring to it as a break in support, okay, but I'm showing you why that level versus why draw a support level on any higher low. Because there's no real structure to it. When you look at support resistance. The idea is, you pick your poison, okay, well, this, this is a high energy movement, and then price comes back and rebalances that. If we break that low, it's going to be a natural break in market structure. In other words, this is going to be a valid break of old support, if you want to call it that. So this gave you the rules of determining what support resistance levels should be broken. If they are broken, what that means and they should be influential in the future. So with that in mind, if we draw that on here like that, we have a higher energy low if you're not writing this stuff down, you're going to be so disappointed later on, because you're going to forget what video this is talking about it, and you're not going to remember the rules either. Okay, because I don't know what I'm going to talk about it again unless the point or concept comes up. But I'm only being prompted because I got a question by way of a direct message, can I talk more about a market structure? So I'm giving you it, so we have a natural break in market structure here, because there's a high energy low, this would be a high energy high, because it took a lot of energy in one candle get up there like that. So if we have points of like this high being formed, if price was ever the trade through that, that would be a break in market structure, a natural breakup market structure to the upside. And if price ever came back down to it, it could act as support. Well, this being support here at a high, high energy low, if it breaks that, that becomes what it's an inversion level now becomes support. Broken now becomes resistance. That's what we have here. So we trade through it there, not on a closing basis there. Okay, notice the difference. We stab through it. Here, touched it here, stabbed through it here, traded and closed through it. Now it's a real break in market structure, a natural break in market structure. So we can see price come back. Notice we were below here. We trade through it a little bit. This is called a re test. This is a retest. The market moves away from it. This is a Retrade.

Unknown Speaker  29:29
Two distinctions. There, retest.

Unknown Speaker  29:32
It's hanging around, touching it, touching it, touching it, multiple little kisses. Then it leaves it, then comes back and retrades to it, so it trades back up to it. Why? This is where the mechanism of the algorithm, where heavy distribution cell program kicks in only relative to time of day. So now we have a framework. We have a natural break in market structure. The market is clearly broken through and closed. The market. Get shown a willingness to go away. And now, if it comes back to that during a kill zone, okay, on this candle here,


Transcribed by https://otter.ai